---
id: 348
title: Losing It!
date: 2015-07-04T13:54:34+00:00
author: Jerri Glover
layout: post
guid: http://blog.brightcanopy.com/?p=348
permalink: /2015/07/04/losing-it/
categories:
  - General
---
By Jerri &#8211; SL: Bethsael (Beth) Robbiani

I hate losing stuff. I pride myself in being relatively organized and I like things to be in their place so when I go to get them the next time, they are where I expect them to be. I also dislike following what seems like logical procedures and anticipating an outcome that does not happen. Both things happened to me yesterday.

Monday I had the opportunity to get into Second Life using Bright Canopy to see some of the SLB12 Sims. I am consistently amazed by people&#8217;s talents and creativity. Thank you to all the builders to created things for the rest of us to enjoy. I digress.

As I travelled around a couple of the Sims enjoying the high graphics setting afforded by Bright Canopy, I took a couple of snapshots I planned to use in a blog for the site. I took the snapshots. Saved them to my disk in the appropriate folder. Closed out Second Life and ended the day with the plan to go back and write the post the following day.

I spent some time putting together a fun post about being graphics deprived for so long and talked about the snapshots I took. I then went to find my snapshots. They were not where I thought I left them. I did a couple of searches. I poked around. I spent quite some time trying very hard to find them. So much time that I ran out of time to complete the post. I saved the post and we packed up from the office and started home. On the drive home I shared my frustration with Bill. That&#8217;s when he reminded me that you can&#8217;t save photos to your hard drive when using Bright Canopy. UGH! Things move so fast, I had forgotten about that detail. He reminded me that I was having the experience as our customers. Therefore&#8211;this post and the resulting Knowledge Based Article.

I am hoping that by sharing my experience I can save someone the frustration of losing their work. Check out the Knowledge Base Article (complete with screen shots) here: <a href="https://brightcanopy.groovehq.com/knowledge_base/topics/saving-photos" target="_blank">Knowledge Base Article: How To Save Photos</a>

Thanks for listening!